Welcome back to Mrs Rundown, in today’s video I
am going to be recapping the events of Step Up,
a 2006 Romance film. Spoilers ahead!
You have been warned. Now like the video and
subscribe to the channel if you enjoy this video.
Brothers Mac and Skinny Carter and their
best friend Tyler Gage attend a party where
they have a fight with their nemesis, PJ.
Following the party, the trio break into
the Maryland School of Arts and trash the
theatre. When a security guard appears,
Tyler helps the two escape, accepting
full blame for the vandalism himself.
He is sentenced to 200 hours of
community service at the school.
There, he watches Nora Clark's dance
class preparing for her "senior showcase",
an audition performance which will
determine if she gets a position
with an attending professional dance company.
When Mac and Skinny visit Tyler on the school's
lot, Nora watches from a window
as Tyler dances with his friends,
mockingly a mashup of break-dance and the
moves he recently observed. When Andrew,
her dance partner sprains an ankle, she finds
herself without a partner for her routine.
Auditioning sophomores to replace him, none
meet her expectations. Tyler offers to help,
but Nora initially refuses. After proving
he can handle the routine, she reconsiders,
convincing Director Gordon to let him
rehearse with her. Initially they clash,
but as rehearsals continue, they grow
closer and learn from each other.
Tyler also befriends Miles, a music student
with a crush on Nora's friend, Lucy.
Nora's bond with Tyler grows, and one day she
takes him to a special spot on the waterfront
where she first envisioned her routine. She
had always imagined it as an ensemble dance,
rather than a duet. Tyler is inspired to help her
dream come true, recruiting younger dancers from
the school to perform in her number. Brett signs a
recording deal with a company, betraying Miles for
the opportunity. Disgusted, Nora breaks up with
him. Meanwhile, Tyler continues to try to balance
his new goals, new friends, and nurturing
a troubled relationship with his old ones.
Tyler asks Director Gordon if she will admit
him into the school, and is told he must prove
he deserves a chance. Nora suggests using
the showcase also as his entrance audition.
After dancing together at a club where Miles
and Lucy perform, Tyler and Nora finally kiss.
Rehearsals continue until Andrew returns,
seemingly healed from his injury. Feeling
he is no longer needed, Tyler angrily accuses
Nora of using him like Brett treated Miles.
Leaving the group, he returns
to his janitorial work.
However, as the choreography is now
much too difficult for Andrew, he falls,
pulling himself from the
routine. Again without a partner,
crushed, she considers abandoning her
dance career for college after all.
Her mother's encouragement inspires her to
rewrite the choreography without a partner.
Later during a party night at Omar's, Skinny
comes by against his mother's insistence he
stay at home and gets kicked out by Mac and
Tyler. Frustrated, Skinny walks back home in
a huff before spotting PJ arriving at a store
with his friend. Skinny steals PJ's unattended
car and foolishly drives back to Omar's, wanting
to hang out with the girls. Mac and Tyler are
trying to get Skinny to abandon the car when PJ
and his friends arrive and fatally shoot Skinny.
After the funeral, both Mac and Tyler realize
that they need to make better life decisions.
Tyler shows up at the last minute on the evening
of the showcase. He tries to persuade Nora to
let him perform with them, and to forgive him.
Initially declining, she suddenly changes her
mind as Tyler wishes her luck and walks away.
When the curtain opens, the whole ensemble
performs the original choreography with Miles'
latest musical score. The crowd is blown away.
Backstage, a proud Director Gordon introduces Nora
to a director of a professional dance company,
hoping to sign Nora. Meanwhile, Mac congratulates
Tyler for his performance. Thereafter, Director
Gordon introduces Tyler as a "transfer".
Nora is elated and embraces him. Repeating
her original advice that he'll need to get some
tights, the movie ends with them sharing a kiss.
Thanks for watching! Make sure to like the
video if you enjoyed it. Subscribe to the
channel if you want to see more of these movie
summaries. It really helps the channel out.